Legend has it that there was an evil and quarrelsome character named Jack the Stingy. The devil got the rumor about this Jack and went to see if he was indeed as evil as they said.

Disguised as a normal man, he went to the tavern where Jack used to go, and began to drink with him. When the devil verified that Jack was indeed a true evil man, he revealed his identity and told him that he was coming to take him away to make him pay for his sins. Jack asked him to drink one more round together, the devil granted him, but by going to pay neither of them had money, so Jack challenged Lucifer to become a coin to demonstrate his powers.

Satan did, but instead of paying with the coin, Jack, who was also quite stingy, put it in his pocket, where he carried a silver crucifix. Unable to get out of there the devil ordered the farmer to set him free, but Jack replied that he would not do so unless he promised to return to hell so as not to disturb him for ten years.

After that time, the Devil appeared again before Jack to take him to hell, but Jack quickly thought again and made one last wish:

I will gladly go with you but before, could you take the apple from that tree to have a last meal before my eternal torment?
Lucifer agreed, but when he was perched on the tree, Jack carved a cross into his trunk so that he could not escape. On this occasion he asked that the devil could never again reclaim his soul for the underworld. Satan agreed and Jack was free from his threat.

After Jack died, he went to heaven, but was detained at the gates of San Pedro, preventing his passage because they could not accept him for his bad past life, and sent him to hell. But in hell they could not accept it either since the Devil had promised it in the deal he made with him.

What will I do now, where will I go? - Jack said to the Devil
Go back the way you came - said the Devil
And he threw Jack some hot embers, which the farmer caught with a hollow pumpkin he was carrying, while mockingly thanking him for the makeshift flashlight he thus obtained.

Condemned to wander the dark paths, he walked with no more light than the lantern in his eternal wandering between the realms of good and evil. With the passage of time Jack the Stingy was known as Jack of the Lantern or "Jack of the Lantern", a name that was shortened to the definitive "Jack O’Lantern".

This is the story of Halloween pumpkins, and also the reason to decorate the houses with these horrendous figures to scare the scary Jack.

END